Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance
2021 Revised Edition
Place: Hong Kong
Effective Date: 2021-12-01

Part 5
Access to and Correction of Personal Data

Division 1 - Access to Personal Data
(Added 18 of 2012 s. 10)

17A. Interpretation of Part 5
Without limiting the definition of relevant person in section 2(1), in this Part—
  relevant person (有關人士), in relation to an individual, also includes a person authorized in writing by the individual to make, on behalf of the individual—
    (a) a data access request; or
    (b) a data correction request.
(Added 18 of 2012 s. 10. Amended E.R. 1 of 2013)

18. Data Access Request
(1) An individual, or a relevant person on behalf of an individual, may make a request—
    (a) to be informed by a data user whether the data user holds personal data of which the individual is the data subject;
    (b) if the data user holds such data, to be supplied by the data user with a copy of such data.
(2) A data access request under both paragraphs of subsection (1) shall be treated as being a single request, and the provisions of this Ordinance shall be construed accordingly.
(3) A data access request under paragraph (a) of subsection (1) may, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, be treated as being a data access request under both paragraphs of that subsection, and the provisions of this Ordinance (including subsection (2)) shall be construed accordingly.
(4) A data user who, in relation to personal data—(a) does not hold the data; but (b) controls the use of the data in such a way as to prohibit the data user who does hold the data from complying (whether in whole or in part) with a data access request which relates to the data, shall be deemed to hold the data, and the provisions of this Ordinance (including this section) shall be construed accordingly. (Amended 18 of 2012 s. 11)
(5) A person commits an offence if the person, in a data access request, supplies any information which is false or misleading in a material particular for the purposes of having the data user—(a) inform the person whether the data user holds any personal data which is the subject of the request; and (b) if applicable, supply a copy of the data. (Added 18 of 2012 s. 11)
(6) A person who commits an offence under subsection (5) is liable on conviction to a fine at level 3 and to imprisonment for 6 months. (Added 18 of 2012 s. 11)

19. Compliance with Data Access Request
(1) Subject to subsection (2) and sections 20 and 28(5), a data user must comply with a data access request within 40 days after receiving the request by—(a) if the data user holds any personal data which is the subject of the request—(i) informing the requestor in writing that the data user holds the data; and (ii) supplying a copy of the data; or (b) if the data user does not hold any personal data which is the subject of the request, informing the requestor in writing that the data user does not hold the data. (Replaced 18 of 2012 s. 12)
(1A) Despite subsection (1)(b), if—(a) a data access request is made to the Hong Kong Police Force as to whether it holds any record of criminal conviction of an individual; and (b) it does not hold such record, it must comply with the request by informing the requestor orally, within 40 days after receiving the request, that it does not hold such record. (Added 18 of 2012 s. 12)
(2) A data user who is unable to comply with a data access request within the period specified in subsection (1) or (1A) shall—(a) before the expiration of that period—(i) by notice in writing inform the requestor that the data user is so unable and of the reasons why the data user is so unable; and (ii) comply with the request to the extent, if
