The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act
2015 Revised Edition
Place: India
Effective Date: 2015-12-01


CHAPTER II
GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF CARE AND PROTECTION OF CHILDREN

Section 74.   Prohibition on disclosure of identity of children.
(1) No report in any newspaper, magazine, news-sheet or audio-visual media or other forms of communication regarding any inquiry or investigation or judicial procedure, shall disclose the name, address or school or any other particular, which may lead to the identification of a child in conflict with law or a child in need of care and protection or a child victim or witness of a crime, involved in such matter, under any other law for the time being in force, nor shall the picture of any such child be published:
Provided that for reasons to be recorded in writing, the Board or Committee, as the case may be, holding the inquiry may permit such disclosure, if in its opinion such disclosure is in the best interest of the child.
(2) The Police shall not disclose any record of the child for the purpose of character certificate or otherwise 1[in the pending case or in the case which] has been closed or disposed of.
(3) Any person contravening the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or fine which may extend to two lakh rupees or both.
Section 75.   Punishment for cruelty to child.
Whoever, having the actual charge of, or control over, a child, assaults, abandons, abuses, exposes or wilfully neglects the child or causes or procures the child to be assaulted, abandoned, abused, exposed or neglected in a manner likely to cause such child unnecessary mental or physical suffering, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years or with fine of one lakh rupees or with both:
Provided that in case it is found that such abandonment of the child by the biological parents is due to circumstances beyond their control, it shall be presumed that such abandonment is not wilful and the penal provisions of this section shall not apply in such cases:
Provided further that if such offence is committed by any person employed by or managing an organisation, which is entrusted with the care and protection of the child, he shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment which may extend up to five years, and fine which may extend up to five lakhs rupees:
Provided also that on account of the aforesaid cruelty, if the child is physically incapacitated or develops a mental illness or is rendered mentally unfit to perform regular tasks or has risk to life or limb, such person shall be punishable with rigorous imprisonment, not less than three years but which may be extended up to ten years and shall also be liable to fine of five lakhs rupees.
Section 76.   Employment of child for begging.
(1) Whoever employs or uses any child for the purpose of begging or causes any child to beg shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and shall also be liable to fine of one lakh rupees:
Provided that, if for the purpose of begging, the person amputates or maims the child, he shall be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term not less than seven years which may extend up to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine of five lakh rupees.
(2) Whoever, having the actual charge of, or control over the child, abets the commission of an offence under sub-section (1), shall be punishable with the same punishment as provided for in subsection (1) and such person shall be considered to be unfit under sub-clause (v) of clause (14) of section 2:
Provided that the said child, shall not be considered a child in conflict with law under any circumstances, and shall be removed from the charge or control of such guardian or custodian and produced before the Committee for appropriate rehabilitation.
Section 77.   Penalty for giving intoxicating liquor or narcotic drug or psychotropic substance to a child.
Whoever gives, or causes to be given, to any child any intoxicating liquor or any narcotic drug or tobacco products or psychotropic substance, except on the order of a duly qualified medical practitioner, shall be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to a fine which may extend up to one lakh rupees.
Section 78.   Using a child for vending, peddling, carrying, supplying or smuggling any intoxicating liquor, narcotic drug or psychotropic substance.
Whoever uses a child, for vending, peddling, carrying, supplying or smuggling any intoxicating liquor, narcotic drug or psychotropic substance, shall be liable for rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to a fine up to one lakh rupees.
Section 79.   Exploitation of a child employee.
Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, whoever ostensibly engages a child and keeps him in bondage for the purpose of employment or withholds his earnings or uses such earning for his own purposes shall be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and shall also be liable to fine of one lakh rupees.
Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, the term "employment" shall also include selling goods and services, and entertainment in public places for economic gain.
Section 80.   Punitive measures for adoption without following prescribed procedures.
If any person or organisation offers or gives or receives, any orphan, abandoned or surrendered child, for the purpose of adoption without following the provisions or procedures as provided in this Act, such person or organisation shall be punishable with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend upto three years, or with fine of one lakh rupees, or with both:
Provided in case where the offence is committed by a recognised adoption agency, in addition to the above punishment awarded to the persons in-charge of, and responsible for the conduct of the day-to-day affairs of the adoption agency, the registration of such agency under section 41 and its recognition under section 65 shall also be withdrawn for a minimum period of one year.
Section 81.   Sale and procurement of children for any purpose.
Any person who sells or buys a child for any purpose shall be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and shall also be liable to fine of one lakh rupees:
Provided that where such offence is committed by a person having actual charge of the child, including employees of a hospital or nursing home or maternity home, the term of imprisonment shall not be less than three years and may extend up to seven years.
Section 82.   Corporal punishment.
(1) Any person in-charge of or employed in a child care institution, who subjects a child to corporal punishment with the aim of disciplining the child, shall be liable, on the first conviction, to a fine of ten thousand rupees and for every subsequent offence, shall be liable for imprisonment which may extend to three months or fine or with both.
(2) If a person employed in an institution referred to in sub-section (1), is convicted of an offence under that sub-section, such person shall also be liable for dismissal from service, and shall also be debarred from working directly with children thereafter.
(3) In case, where any corporal punishment is reported in an institution referred to in sub-section (1) and the management of such institution does not cooperate with any inquiry or comply with the orders of the Committee or the Board or court or State Government, the person in-charge of the management of the institution shall be liable for punishment with imprisonment for a term not less than three years and shall also be liable to fine which may extend to one lakh rupees.
Section 83.   Use of child by militant groups or other adults.
(1) Any non-State, self-styled militant group or outfit declared as such by the Central Government, if recruits or uses any child for any purpose, shall be liable for rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine of five lakh rupees.
(2) Any adult or an adult group uses children for illegal activities either individually or as a gang shall be liable for rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine of five lakh rupees.
Section 84.   Kidnapping and abduction of child.
For the purposes of this Act, the provisions of sections 359 to 369 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), shall mutatis mutandis apply to a child or a minor who is under the age of eighteen years and all the provisions shall be construed accordingly.
